In the last video i showed you the arrays.
And now, the last variable type that i will
introduce you to, are the so-called objects.
Objects are somewhat related to arrays,
as you will see in a bit. To define an
object we simply use the curly brackets
and now we can define keys and values
for those keys. For example you could say
an X key and give it a numeric value and a Y key
and another numeric value and maybe a text value.
And similar to our arrays, we can also nest arrays
and objects inside other objects and arrays. Let's
add an array here, let's call it "list" and then
use the other brackets again and inside this list,
we can now also add additional keys and values.
And to access the values, that we saved in
our object, the notation is quite similar to
how we wrote the access for arrays. We use
the brackets again. And now we say, okay,
we want for example x or we want the list and
inside the list we want the first item and from
this item we want the X value. This is how you
stack/nest these elements inside one another.
And for the objects, if you have a key that is
written without any special characters, without
any spaces, you can also use an abbreviation.
In this case you can get rid of the quotation
marks and the brackets and simply write dot list,
dot x. But be sure to use the brackets and the
numeric indices for the array again. Just to show
you how it helps to better structure your code
here, we created our list of elements that
contains the x and y value for our little circles.
Instead of pushing an array here, i will now
push an object and i will use the x and the y key
to store our elements here. And if i
save this, obviously this will not work,
because we need to replace the zero
and the one, with our x and our y.
And now you can imagine, how this
helps you structure your code,
because imagine now we add two other
parameters for example we could add the size
and we could add a color.
Now we can simply copy this code here and say
size and then right here we can write color.
So it's very easy to remember where you find the
individual keys and attributes that you saved
in the bigger array above and it helps
you structure your code a lot better.